# Lightning Wallet Connect

This project includes web components for connecting to Lightning Wallets and enabling [WebLN](https://webln.guide). Websites only need to implement a single interface to connect with multiple wallets (WebLN), and users can connect from both desktop and mobile devices. These components work with pure HTML and all Javascript libraries frameworks such as React, Angular, Vue, Solid.js, etc.

## 🚀 Quick Start

```
npm install @getalby/lightning-wallet-connect
```

or

```
yarn add @getalby/lightning-wallet-connect
```

or for use without any build tools:

```
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@getalby/lightning-wallet-connect@1.0.5/dist/index.browser.js"></script>
```

## 📽️ Demo

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33993199/234830578-0baf25f9-0179-4244-941c-0c558c613a7a.mov

## 🤙 Usage

Lightning wallet connect exposes the following web components for allowing user to connect their desired Lightning wallet:

- `<lwc-button/>` - launches the LWC Modal on click
  - Optional Arguments:
    - `icon-only` - display the button as an icon without "Connect wallet"
    - `disabled` - mark the button as disabled. _NOTE: in react disabled={false} will not work - attribute must be omitted_
- `<lwc-modal/>` - render the modal on its own
- `<lwc-connector-list/>` - render the list of connectors on their own
- _more components coming soon_

Lightning wallet connect exposes the following events:

- `lwc:connected` window event which fires when a wallet is connected and window.webln is ready to use
- `lwc:connecting` window event which fires when LWC is connecting to a wallet
- `lwc:disconnected` window event which fires when user has disconnected from their wallet
- `lwc:modalopened` window event which fires when Lightning Wallet Connect modal is opened
- `lwc:modalclosed` window event which fires when Lightning Wallet Connect modal is closed

Current wallets supported:

- [Alby Browser extension] (https://getalby.com)
- [Alby NWC](https://nwc.getalby.com)
- [Generic NWC URL](https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/47.md)

### Styling

- the following css variables can be configured as hex or rgb: `lwc-color-gradient1`, `lwc-color-gradient2`, `lwc-color-primary`, `lwc-color-secondary`, `lwc-color-tertiary`

```css
html {
  --lwc-color-gradient-1: #ffc837;
  --lwc-color-gradient-2: #ff8008;
  --lwc-color-primary: black;
  --lwc-color-secondary: yellow;
  --lwc-color-tertiary: green;
}
```

### Pure HTML

> Example codepen: https://codepen.io/rolznz/pen/ZEmXGLd

```html
<html>
  <body>
    <lwc-button></lwc-button>
    <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@getalby/lightning-wallet-connect@1.0.5/dist/index.browser.js"></script>
    <script>
      window.addEventListener('lwc:connected', async () => {
        // TODO: hide the lwc-button
        const invoice = // (...invoice generated by backend)
          await window.webln.sendPayment(invoice);
        confetti();
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```

### React

> Example replit: https://replit.com/@rolznz/make-me-an-image-lwc-version

```tsx
import '@getalby/lightning-wallet-connect';

// in your component, listen to lightning wallet connected event
const [lwcConnected, setLwcConnected] = React.useState(false);

React.useEffect(() => {
  const onConnected = () => setLwcConnected(true);
  window.addEventListener('lwc:connected', onConnected);

  return () => {
    window.removeEventListener('lwc:connected', onConnected);
  };
}, []);

const invoice = // (...invoice generated by backend)

return lwcConnected ? <>
    <button onClick={() => window.webln.sendPayment(invoice)}/>
  </> : (
    {/* @ts-ignore */}
    <lwc-button/>
  );
```

# Demos

Open [demos](demos/README.md)

# 🛠️ Development

## Install

Run `yarn install && (cd dev/vite && yarn install)`

## Run Vite

Run `yarn dev`

## Other dev options

Open [dev](dev/README.md)

## Production Build

`yarn build`

### Build (Watch mode - no pure html support)

`yarn dev:build`

### Build (Watch mode - with pure html support)

`yarn dev:build:browser`

## Testing

`yarn test`

# Need help?

We are happy to help, please contact us or create an issue.

- [Twitter: @getAlby](https://twitter.com/getAlby)
- [Telegram group](https://t.me/getAlby)
- support at getalby.com
- [bitcoin.design](https://bitcoin.design/) Discord community (find us on the #alby channel)
- Read the [Alby developer guide](https://guides.getalby.com/overall-guide/alby-for-developers/getting-started) to better understand how Alby packages and APIs can be used to power your app.

## FAQ
- Does this work on mobile browsers and mobile PWAs, or desktop browsers without a WebLN extension?

Yes! that's the main benefit.

- Does it work with a desktop extension enabled?

Yes. It will use the desktop extension as the default connector if it exists.

- Can I connect it to my mobile wallet?

That depends. The connection to your lightning node / wallet needs to be asynchronous so that you can use Bitcoin Connect natively on mobile websites or PWAs.

- Can a user connect any lightning wallet?

It will only work for the connectors that are shown in the modal. Some of these connectors (e.g. the Alby Browser Extension) allow to connect multiple wallets themselves. Feel free to contribute to add a new connector.

- Does it "remember" the user if they leave the page or close the browser?

Yes. Your connection is saved to localStorage

- Is this safe?

You should have a certain level of trust on the website you decide to connect your wallet with, and that they ensure there is no malicious third-party scripts which would intend to read the wallet connection configuration, either from memory or storage. Connectors with budget controls or confirmation dialogs (Alby extension or NWC) are recommend so you have full control over your connection.

- What are the high level things I need to do to add this to my site?

1. add the "Connect Wallet" button
2. wait for a connection event (using window.addEventListener) and then request to pay the invoice with window.webln



# 🔥 Lit

This project is powered by Lit.

See [Get started](https://lit.dev/docs/getting-started/) on the Lit site for more information.

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE)
